Welcome in this lecture.
We're going to be having it so that the characters chase us and punch us and attackers and can actually
do damage to us so I can attack them back.
But if I lose on my health I go ahead and die.
So let's dive in and see how to achieve this.
So it's all very well as being able to detect whether the enemy should give chase or not.
But we do actually want that to happen.
It's a bit boring at the moment.
So the way we are going to do this is as we've already done we've separated out our control for the
player control a way back in the last section and now we are going to do exactly the second part of
this which is to set up an Enemy Controller.
The A.I. controller is an Enemy Controller.
So that's what we want to do at this stage and for it to be able to manipulate the move and combat directly
and for it to start off it's going to start off with manipulating combat for us to be able to do that.
We're going to have to call the same kind of methods as the play controller.
What's the advantage of using the same interface as the player controller.
Well for one thing it allows us to reduce the amount of code we have to write because if the fighter
was controlled differently between the A.I. and the player controller then we would have to write to
lots of code to deal with that.
So basically what's the player controller doing is saying to the fighter can I attack and start attacking.
Now that should be enough for us to be able to get the fighter to work.
Basically we might need a few more methods but not much.
But there is a problem.
They can attack and attack both taking the combat targets the player does not have a combat target because
the combat target is for stuff that can be clicked on and the player cannot be clicked on.
And we want the A.I. controller to not have to not have to have a combat target basically.
So we're going to have to change this interface to make it more generic and allow it to be used for
the A.I. controller and the player control.
So a little bit of a refactor here instead of taking in the combat target which at the moment we're
not really using to its full potential anyway because we're just going ahead and getting the health
component off of this.
So what we can do is we could change it over to say a game object.
Notice that in this case I'm not using the renamed tool because we just want to rename it here in the
fighter.
Nowhere else.
So now it is taking a game object in and it will try to attack it.
For example if I take in a game object that does not have a health component I can't attack it.
So this can attack function is going to fail at the first hurdle.
And so we're not going to go on and do an attack.
So if we go over to the play controller it's now going to be failing.
But that's okay because instead of getting the combat target we do want to get check that there is a
combat target.
Otherwise we should not be trying to attack this thing.
So first of all we're just going to an F target equals no.
We're going to reintroduce that we're going to continue basically saying that if we do not have a combat
target this is not something we can click on to avoid as clicking on ourselves.
Clicking on NPC that might be attacked by A.I. things like that.
And then what we want to do is get the target game object.
So I'm going to do a game object Targ and call it Target game object and we're going to get the game
object from the target so target dot game object like so in fact it probably would have been easier
just to inline this.
So that's what I'm going to target game object target or game object for can attack in both of these
situations.
So now what's happening is can attack.
We'll check whether the game object is no.
It will also then go on to check whether it has a health component if it hasn't got a health component
we can't attack it.
So it's going to fail.
And then if the mouse button is down we are going to try and attack it directly as a game object.
So it's pretty straightforward.
It's pretty much how it was working before.
So now I want to give you the challenge of making sure that the A.I. can attack.
So the A.I. should attack instead of print.
That seems pretty obvious and we should stop chasing when we've run away now just so that you are aware
the enemy currently is set up to run as fast as we do which means that basically we're not going to
be able to run away are we.
So you might need to change the speed in the nav mesh at which the enemy runs so that we can get away
in time.
So pause the video and see if you can get it to the stage where we are fighting and running and running
away and stopping fighting.
So the enemy I will attack has run towards us when we're in range when we're out of range.
They give up trying to run after us.
So think about how we're going to do that think about how we might have done that and the player controller
so far and how we've done similar things maybe in the move in the fighter how we've done these kind
of decisions in update post video and have a go OK.
Welcome back.
So for example over and fighter you can see we've got our if statements where we're doing if it's in
range move to otherwise cancel the movement and do the attack behavior it's a similar kind of thing
that we want to do in the eye controller.
We want to say that if we're basically in range to chase we want to start fighting.
So we need to get hold of the fighter.
So it's going to be a get component fighter and then we are going to call dot and I don't have the name
space includes so dot plus to use the combat namespace I think it's reasonable to for the A.I. controller
to be using the combat namespace.
So the fighter dot and then what do we want to do.
Want to attack but should we always attack.
Hmm.
Let's see.
So we've got our player in here we need to get a reference to the play a game object back an update
like so and I'm not sure I want to be doing this multiple times I'm going to see it in a second.
So we're going to attack it but should we be attacking it if we can't attack it.
For example if the player is dead we shouldn't be attacking it so we should be able to say distance
the player less than chase distance and the fighter component nice is getting a bit long.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm going to put the stop method back in here and I'm going to take a cached
reference to our fighter component in start.
So we'll have fighter equals get component.
You know the drill fighter very common to do this and then we can just do fighter attack in here and
we can just do fighter dot can attack player up in the if statement says can we distance play less than
chase distance and fighter can attack plan.
Now I'm not 100 percent happy with this so distance to play.
I'm just going to change this into a boolean basically saying in attack range and it's going to take
the game object player as the argument so we don't have to find the object twice in one update.
I think that's starting to get a bit wasteful so we've got that and in fact you know what we can do
because the player doesn't change.
We can take a cache reference to the player as well so we don't have to find them every single frame.
So what game object.
The player we take the reference to it at start using exact same method from update.
So I'll take the player equals game object find with tag over into start.
So now our player is available all the time.
Means you don't have to pass this in.
So in attack range probably of player like so.
And now we can do at distance and we just want to check that it's less than the chase distance all in
one go.
So all on that line we are figuring out distance that I can do that as a separate variable.
So I'm gonna introduce a local variable this with the control plus or the light bulb.
You can do that control plus then introduce a variable and we're going to call this variable the distance
to player.
So it's easy to read.
Got to calculate the distance to play and if the distance a player is less than chase distance then
we are returning true for an attack range of player.
So instead of distance a player I can use in attack range of player just so everything reads really
nicely.
This is why I've done it.
Okay cause an update is now saying if an attack range of player and can attack player then fighter attack
player that makes a lot of sense.
Now the problem with this is that our enemies something's not quite working safe.
That's why the problem with this is that our player is going to attack us as soon as we come in range.
Sorry our enemy is going to attack as soon as we come in range.
We can't get out of range because they're running as fast as we are.
So first things first we need to make them slow.
I'm gonna go at a speed of three and then mesh agent.
So now they walk slowly and I am getting away from them but they just keep chasing me.
The reason for this is that we never cancel the attack.
We start attacking play and we never stop.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna introduce an else into update so that we're saying in attack range
of player and can attack player then attack.
Otherwise we're going to have to cancel the attack components so that it doesn't try to attack when
we're out of range.
So let's give that a go.
Hopefully that should do the trick.
Now walking towards me walking towards me I get out of range and they have stopped and I've left them
behind.
They've lost interest but I get back into range.
Even just back into range of one of them and he starts following me again.
So what happens if I let him get to me.
Boom.
He starts beating me up and if we have a look at my player components I can see that my health points
are actually going down so the fact that we've made this system so similar between the enemy and the
player means that with so little effort we have been able to create a guy that is able to damage us
in exactly the same way as we're able to damage them.
Cool stuff now.
I'll see you in the next video where we'll be fixing the behavior.
I can carry on moving around even when I'm dead and I think the enemies will keep following us even
when they're dead so we're gonna disable that behavior because that's a bit of a weird bug.
See that.